README.md, before:

soketi
======

<img src="assets/logo.png" width="120" />

![CI](https://github.com/soketi/soketi/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/soketi/soketi/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/soketi/soketi/branch/master)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/soketi/soketi)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@soketi/soketi)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@soketi/soketi)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@soketi/soketi)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@soketi/soketi)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@soketi/soketi)

Just another simple, fast, and resilient open-source WebSockets server. 📣

The server is built on top of [uWebSockets.js](https://github.com/uNetworking/uWebSockets.js) - a C application ported to Node.js, that claims to be running _[8.5x that of Fastify](https://alexhultman.medium.com/serving-100k-requests-second-from-a-fanless-raspberry-pi-4-over-ethernet-fdd2c2e05a1e) and at least [10x that of Socket.IO](https://medium.com/swlh/100k-secure-websockets-with-raspberry-pi-4-1ba5d2127a23). ([_source_](https://github.com/uNetworking/uWebSockets.js))_

soketi implements the [Pusher Protocol v7](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/library\_auth\_reference/pusher-websockets-protocol#version-7-2017-11) (and soon, more!) so that any Pusher-maintained client can connect to it, bringing a _just-change-the-pusher-client-credentials_ experience for the already-built frontend apps.

## 🤝 Supporting

**soketi is meant to be free, forever. Having a good companion for developing real-time applications locally and in production should not involve any third-party and having a reliable websocket server to deploy behind a firewall makes soketi a compelling option for many applications.**

**Of course, like many open source software solutions, development is done by investing volunteer time into the project. Therefore, all donations are greatly appreciated. You can sponsor the development via **[**Github Sponsors**](https://github.com/sponsors/rennokki)**.**

## 📃 Documentation

[The entire documentation is available on Gitbook 🌍](https://rennokki.gitbook.io/soketi-docs/)

## 🤝 Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 🔒  Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email alex@renoki.org instead of using the issue tracker.

## 🎉 Credits

- [Alex Renoki](https://github.com/rennokki)
- [Pusher Protocol](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/library_auth_reference/pusher-websockets-protocol)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

Commit message:

updated headlines with the docs

README.md, after:

soketi
======

<img src="assets/logo.png" width="120" />

![CI](https://github.com/soketi/soketi/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/soketi/soketi/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/soketi/soketi/branch/master)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/soketi/soketi)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@soketi/soketi)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@soketi/soketi)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@soketi/soketi)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@soketi/soketi)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@soketi/soketi)

The soketi server is built on top of [uWebSockets.js](https://github.com/uNetworking/uWebSockets.js) - a C application ported to Node.js. uWebSockets.js is demonstrated to perform at levels [_8.5x that of Fastify_](https://alexhultman.medium.com/serving-100k-requests-second-from-a-fanless-raspberry-pi-4-over-ethernet-fdd2c2e05a1e) and at least [_10x that of Socket.IO_](https://medium.com/swlh/100k-secure-websockets-with-raspberry-pi-4-1ba5d2127a23). (_[_source_](https://github.com/uNetworking/uWebSockets.js)_)

soketi implements the [Pusher Protocol v7](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/library\_auth\_reference/pusher-websockets-protocol#version-7-2017-11). Therefore, any Pusher-maintained or compatible client can connect to it, bringing a plug-and-play experience for existing applications that are already compatible with this protocol.

In addition to being a good companion during local development, soketi comes with the resiliency and speed required for demanding production applications.

## 🤝 Supporting

**soketi is meant to be free, forever. Having a good companion for developing real-time applications locally and in production should not involve any third-party and having a reliable websocket server to deploy behind a firewall makes soketi a compelling option for many applications.**

**Of course, like many open source software solutions, development is done by investing volunteer time into the project. Therefore, all donations are greatly appreciated. You can sponsor the development via **[**Github Sponsors**](https://github.com/sponsors/rennokki)**.**

## 📃 Documentation

[The entire documentation is available on Gitbook 🌍](https://rennokki.gitbook.io/soketi-docs/)

## 🤝 Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 🔒  Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email alex@renoki.org instead of using the issue tracker.

## 🎉 Credits

- [Alex Renoki](https://github.com/rennokki)
- [Pusher Protocol](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/library_auth_reference/pusher-websockets-protocol)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)
